Improve troubleshooting doc (#6084)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/troubleshooting/troubleshooting.md

docker logout public.ecr.aws
```

### Error unmarshaling JSON: while decoding JSON: json: unknown field "spec"

```
Error: loading config file "cluster.yaml": error unmarshaling JSON: while decoding JSON: json: unknown field "spec"
```
Use `eksctl anywhere create cluster -f cluster.yaml` instead of `eksctl create cluster -f cluster.yaml` to create an EKS Anywhere cluster.

### Error: old cluster config file exists under my-cluster, please use a different clusterName to proceed

```
Error: old cluster config file exists under my-cluster, please use a different clusterName to proceed
```
The `my-cluster` directory already exists in the current directory.
Either use a different cluster name or move the directory.

### Memory or disk resource problem

There are various disk and memory issues on the admin machine that can cause problems. Make sure:
* Docker is configured with enough memory.

> * The system wide Docker memory configuration provides enough RAM for the bootstrap cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The system-wide Docker memory configuration provides enough RAM for the bootstrap cluster.
```

* You do not have unneeded KinD clusters by running `kind get clusters`.

>     * You may want to delete unneeded clusters with `kind delete cluster --name <cluster-name>`. If you do not have `kind` installed, you may install it from https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/ or use `docker ps` to see the KinD clusters and `docker stop` to stop the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You should delete unneeded clusters with `kind delete cluster --name <cluster-name>`. If you do not have `kind` installed, you can install it from https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/ or use `docker ps` to see the KinD clusters and run `docker stop` to stop the cluster.
```
Consider moving these two sentences so that are part of the main bullet and not a subbullet.

> * Make sure you do not have any unneeded Docker containers running with `docker ps`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You do not have any unneeded Docker containers running with `docker ps`.
```

>     * Terminate any unneeded Docker containers.

Reviewer: Consider making this a second sentence in above bullet instead of a subbullet.

* Make sure Docker isn't out of disk resources.

>     * If you don't have any other docker containers running you may want to run `docker system prune` to clean up disk space.

Reviewer: Consider making this a second sentence in above bullet instead of a subbullet.

### The connection to the server localhost:8080 was refused 

```
Performing provider setup and validations
Creating new bootstrap cluster
Installing cluster-api providers on bootstrap cluster
Error initializing capi in bootstrap cluster	{"error": "error waiting for capi-kubeadm-control-plane-controller-manager in namespace capi-kubeadm-control-plane-system: error executing wait: The connection to the server localhost:8080 was refused - did you specify the right host or port?\n"}
Failed to create cluster	{"error": "error waiting for capi-kubeadm-control-plane-controller-manager in namespace capi-kubeadm-control-plane-system: error executing wait: The connection to the server localhost:8080 was refused - did you specify the right host or port?\n"}
```
Initializing Cluster API components on the bootstrap cluster fails. This is likely a [memory or disk resource problem]({{< relref "#memory-or-disk-resource-problem" >}}).

### Generic cluster unavailable

Troubleshoot more by inspecting bootstrap cluster or workload cluster (depending on the stage of the failure) using kubectl commands. 
```
kubectl get pods -A --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>
kubectl get nodes -A --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>

> kubectl get logs <podname> -n <namespace> --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl logs <podname> -n <namespace> --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>
```

kubectl logs -f -n capv-system -l control-plane="controller-manager" -c manager
```

> It is also useful to start a shell session on the docker container running the bootstrap cluster by running `docker ps` and then `docker exec -it <container-id> bash` the kind container.

Reviewer 2: Nit: capitalization of all Docker references that aren't `docker` commands.

```suggestion
It is also useful to start a shell session on the Docker container running the bootstrap cluster by running `docker ps` and then `docker exec -it <container-id> bash` the kind container.
```

### Bootstrap cluster fails to come up: node(s) already exist for a cluster with the name

```
Error: creating bootstrap cluster: executing create cluster: ERROR: failed to create cluster: node(s) already exist for a cluster with the name \"cluster-name\"
, try rerunning with —force-cleanup to force delete previously created bootstrap cluster
```

Cluster creation fails because a cluster of the same name already exists. If you are sure the cluster is not being used, try running the `eksctl anywhere create cluster` again, adding the `--force-cleanup` option.

If that doesn't work, you can manually delete the old cluster:

```bash
kind delete cluster --name cluster-name
```

### Cluster upgrade fails with management components on bootstrap cluster

If a cluster upgrade of a management (or self managed) cluster fails or is halted in the middle, you may be left in a

> state where the management resources (CAPI) are still on the KinD bootstrap cluster on the admin machine. Right now, you will have to

Reviewer: We're inconsistent with "Admin machine" vs. "admin machine". I prefer "Admin machine" because it seems like a more real thing to me.  Most of the getting started docs use "Admin machine". I'm open to changing it, however.

#### No IP assigned to the new etcd machine

Refer to [no IP assigned to a VM]({{< relref "#no-ip-assigned-to-a-vm" >}}) section.

### Machines are unhealthy after restoring CAPI control from the backup

When an EKS Anywhere management cluster loses its CAPI resources, you need use the backup stored in the <cluster-name> folder to regain the management control. It is possible that after recovering the cluster from CAPI backup, the machine objects are in unhealthy/not ready state. For example:

```sh
$ kubectl get machines -n eksa-system

NAME                                    PHASE
cluster1-etcd-2md6m                     Failed
cluster1-etcd-s8qs5                     Failed
cluster1-etcd-vqs6w                     Failed
cluster1-md-0-75584b4fccxfgs86-pfk22    Failed
cluster1-x6rzc                          Failed
```

This can happen when the new machines got rolled out after the backup was taken, thus the backup objects being applied do not have the latest machine configurations. When applying an outdated CAPI backup, the provider machine object is out of sync with the actual infrastructure VM.

#### etcdadm join failed in etcd machine bootstrap log

> When an etcd machine object is not in ready state, you can ssh into the etcd node and check the etcd bootstrap log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an etcd machine object is not in ready state, you can `ssh` into the etcd node and check the etcd bootstrap log:
```

{{< tabpane >}}
{{< tab header="Ubuntu or RHEL" lang="bash" >}}
cat /var/log/cloud-init.log
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab header="Bottlerocket" lang="bash" >}}
sudo sheltie
journalctl _COMM=host-ctr
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

> If the bootstrap log indicates that the etcdam join operation fail, this can mean that the etcd cluster contains unhealthy memeber(s). Looking at the log details you can further troubleshoot from below sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the bootstrap log indicates that the etcdadm join operation fail, this can mean that the etcd cluster contains unhealthy member(s). Looking at the log details you can further troubleshoot from below sections.
```

#### New etcd machine cannot find the existing etcd cluster members

The edcdadm log shows error that the new etcd machine cannot connect to the existing etcd cluster memebers. This means the `etcdadm-init` secret is outdated. To update it, run

```sh
kubectl edit <cluster-name>-etcd-init -n eksa-system
```

> and make sure the new etcd machine IP is included to the secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and make sure the new etcd machine IP is included in the secret.
```

#### New etcd machine cannot join the cluster due to loss of quorum

An etcd cluster needs a majority of nodes, a quorum, to agree on updates to the cluster state. For a cluster with n members, quorum is (n/2)+1. If etcd could not automatically recover and restore quorum, it is possible that there was an unhealthy or broken VM (e.g. a VM without IP assigned) that is still a member of the etcd cluster. You need to find and manually remove the unhealthy member. 

> To achieve that, first ssh into the etcd node and use `etcdctl member list` command to detect the unhealthy member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve that, first `ssh` into the etcd node and use `etcdctl member list` command to detect the unhealthy member.
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab header="Bottlerocket" lang="bash" >}}
ETCD_CONTAINER_ID=$(ctr -n k8s.io c ls | grep -w "etcd-io" | cut -d " " -f1)
ctr -n k8s.io t exec -t --exec-id etcd ${ETCD_CONTAINER_ID} etcdctl \
     --cacert=/var/lib/etcd/pki/ca.crt \
     --cert=/var/lib/etcd/pki/server.crt \
     --key=/var/lib/etcd/pki/server.key \
     member list
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

After identifying the unhealthy member, use `etcdctl member remove` to remove it from the cluster.

{{< tabpane >}}
{{< tab header="Ubuntu or RHEL" lang="bash" >}}
sudo etcdctl --cacert=/etc/etcd/pki/ca.crt --cert=/etc/etcd/pki/etcdctl-etcd-client.crt --key=/etc/etcd/pki/etcdctl-etcd-client.key member remove ${UNHEALTHY_MEMBER_ID}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab header="Bottlerocket" lang="bash" >}}
ctr -n k8s.io t exec -t --exec-id etcd ${ETCD_CONTAINER_ID} etcdctl \
     --cacert=/var/lib/etcd/pki/ca.crt \
     --cert=/var/lib/etcd/pki/server.crt \
     --key=/var/lib/etcd/pki/server.key \
     member remove ${UNHEALTHY_MEMBER_ID}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

#### Provider machine does not point to the underlying VMs

> Follow the VM restore process in provider specific section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the VM restore process in the provider-specific section.
```

export KUBECONFIG=${PWD}/${CLUSTER_NAME}/generated/${CLUSTER_NAME}.kind.kubeconfig
kubectl logs -f -n capv-system -l control-plane="controller-manager" -c manager
```
Make sure you are choosing a control plane ip in your network range that does not conflict with other VMs.

### Generic cluster unavailable

The first thing to look at is: were virtual machines created on your target provider? In the case of vSphere, you should see some VMs in your folder and they should be up. Check the console and if you see:
```
[FAILED] Failed to start Wait for Network to be Configured.
```
Make sure your DHCP server is up and working.

> More CAPV troubleshooting guide: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-vsphere/blob/master/docs/troubleshooting.md#debugging-issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more troubleshooting tips. see the [CAPV Troubleshooting](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-vsphere/blob/master/docs/troubleshooting.md#debugging-issues) guide.
```

ssh -i <ssh-private-key> <ssh-username>@<external-IP>
```

### Create command stuck on `Creating new workload cluster`

> There can be a few reasons if the create command is stuck on `Creating new workload cluster` for over 30 min.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There can be a few reasons that the create command is stuck on `Creating new workload cluster` for over 30 min.
```

#### Control Plane IP in clusterconfig is not present on any Control Plane VM

If there are any IPv4 IPs assigned, check if one of the VMs have the controlPlane IP specified in `Cluster.spec.controlPlaneConfiguration.endpoint.host` in the clusterconfig yaml.
If this IP is not present on any control plane VM, make sure the `network` has access to the following endpoints:

{{% content "../getting-started/vsphere/domains.md" %}}

#### `Failed to connect to <vSphere-FQDN>: connection refused` on vsphere-cloud-controller-manager

If the IPv4 IPs are assigned to the VM and you have the workload kubeconfig under `<cluster-name>/<cluster-name>-eks-a-cluster.kubeconfig`, you can use it to check `vsphere-cloud-controller-manager` logs.
```
kubectl logs -n kube-system vsphere-cloud-controller-manager-<xxxxx> --kubeconfig <cluster-name>/<cluster-name>-eks-a-cluster.kubeconfig
```

> If you see below message in the logs, it means your cluster nodes do not have access to vSphere, which is required for cluster to get to a ready state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see the message below in the logs, it means your cluster nodes do not have access to vSphere, which is required for the cluster to get to a ready state.
```

govc object.destroy $VM_NAME
```

### Restore VM for machine in vSphere

> When a CAPI machine is in not ready state, it is possible that the machine object does not match the underlying VM in vSphere. Instead, the machine is pointing to a VM that does not exist anymore.

Reviewer: Does "no ready" appear literally? If so, perhaps mark it `not ready` or `Not Ready`, depending on how it appears. If you just mean that as a general state of things, then the text is fine.

Author: yes i mean more in general

> In order to solve this, you need to update the `vspheremachine` and `vspherevm` objects to point to the new VM running in vSphere. This requires getting the `UUID` for the new VM (using `govc` command), and use it to update the `biosUUID` and `providerID` fields. Notice that this would create a mismatch between the CAPI resources names (`vspheremachine` and `vspherevm`) and the actual VM in vSphere. However, that is only an aesthetic inconvenience, since the mapping is done based on `UUID` and not name. Once the objects are updated, a machine rollout would replace the VM with new one, removing the name mismatch problem. You also need to cleanup the error message and error reason from the statuses to resume the reconciliation of these objects. With that done, the machine objects should move to `Running` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to solve this, you need to update the `vspheremachine` and `vspherevm` objects to point to the new VM running in vSphere. This requires getting the `UUID` for the new VM (using `govc` command), and using it to update the `biosUUID` and `providerID` fields. Notice that this would create a mismatch between the CAPI resources names (`vspheremachine` and `vspherevm`) and the actual VM in vSphere. However, that is only an aesthetic inconvenience, since the mapping is done based on `UUID` and not name. Once the objects are updated, a machine rollout would replace the VM with a new one, removing the name mismatch problem. You also need to cleanup the error message and error reason from the statuses to resume the reconciliation of these objects. With that done, the machine objects should move to `Running` state.
```
